Learning bépo.

Like almost everybody, I have never learnt to properly type on a keyboard. I can type reasonably quickly, but not in an efficient way: I only use two or three fingers, which need to move a lot from one side to the other. And I often need to watch the keyboard. 

Azerty was not made to be efficient at writing. Like qwerty, this layout dates from another era where mechanical issues in typewriters had to be addressed by making it hard to type fast common pairs of letters.

Using an alternative keyboard layout was on my radar for a while. When you set out to learn a new keyboard layout, the goal is to learn to touch type: you should aim to write with all 10 fingers, without looking at the keyboard. In the end, you'll type faster and with less mistakes. Also, your fingers will be more often at rest. The feeling of comfort when touch typing is incredible, and the feeling of clumsiness when I go back to Azerty makes it weird to believe I've typed so poorly for years.

## A path towards properly typing on a keyboard

First things first: **no need to change your keyboard**. Since the goal is not to have to look at it, what's printed on the keys does not matter. Simply choose a layout that makes sense learning to you (Bépo is good for typing French, Dvorak is frequently suggested if you often type in english). Then, find a way to change the input details in your operating system. Finally, install a program like [Klavaro](https://klavaro.sourceforge.io/en/index.html), which will teach you to touch type. You are now ready to start this adventure.

It takes about 3-4 painful months to get it. I have tried doing this a few times, but gave up twice. I finally managed to "succeed" a few months ago. It may seem like a lot of time, but I plan to keep typing for many more years, so to me this effort made sense. And like all habits that stick, the gain outweighted the pain.

There are a few steps to learning this skill :

1) **the basics**. It takes about a week learn the positon of the letters in a new layout. With a tool like klavaro, you learn where to position your fingers at rest, that every fingers is meant to type a letter in particular. Do this for a few days until you know the whole keyboard. Everyday, do an exercise in Klavaro. Don't rush it.

2) **Getting better**. You may need some time to get accustomed to your new layout, so don't rush it. Do some exercises in Klavaro, type a mail once in a while. Don't ever look at your keyboard. Instead, print a cheatsheet that you'll be able to throw away when you d

When you can type at 10 words per minutes without looking at your cheatsheet, you can move to the next step. 

3) **The jump**. Pick a moment where it's calm at work, and use only your new layout. Warning: it's super hard. You'll feel crippled. 10wpm is at best 20% of your normal typing speed. Emails will be hard to type, online chat will be a pain. It's a tough period. Still, despite the urge, don't ever switch to the original layout: in time of difficulty, it may become an easy solution that will soon become the default. You don't this habit to kick in, so don't do that. One or two months in, you'll eventually be able to type at 30wpm and things will get better. Everyday, do your klavaro exercises. Don't aim for speed: aim for accuracy. It's your ability to not make mistakes that is going to make you a faster typist.

3) **Getting back to normal speed**. 30 wpm was the speed where typing didn't feel like a pain, but it was still order of magnitude slower than what I could originally type. There nothing to do there: time will make you build experience, you'll learn the frequent bigrams and trigrams in your language, and soon enough you'll be as fast as you originally were. Congratulations!

In total, it took me 4 months to go from 10wpm to 60. That's comfortable, but that's definitely not fast.

After a while, when your are confident with the layout and that your accuracy is good even at high speed, you can try to **go faster**:

 - **be deliberate**: I stalled for a long time when I stopped doing exercises, for accuracy or speed. So do some exercises aimed at writing more accurately or faster.
 - You can maybe start your day by a small **warm up** ? I've seen [Gary Bernardt](https://twitter.com/garybernhardt/) do this before a live-coding session, and he types at more than 100 words per minute.
 - train for the **[frequent trigrams](http://tazzon.free.fr/dactylotest/tridactyl/)**. 
 - learn to type the **[most frequent words](10fastfingers.com/) in your language**.
 - You can type custom texts with Klavaro: With «Speed» or «fluidity», theres' an «Other texts» button. You can paste a text you aim to read. You'll both read and train.
